after the destruction of an asteroid
headed for earth the chemical fallout
causes all cold-blooded animals to
mutate into large monsters
during the evacuation of fairfield joel
dawson
is separated from his girlfriend amy but
promises to find her
and his parents are killed seven years
later
joel lives in one of many underground
bunkers called colonies
where other survivors except for him
have romantically paired up with each
other while fighting monsters and
scavenging for supplies
joel instead is left behind in the
kitchen as he is notorious for freezing
in dangerous situations
when a giant ant breaches his colony
killing one of the survivors
joel sets off on a quest to reunite with
amy so that he doesn't end up alone
passing through the suburbs joel is
attacked by a giant toad monster but is
saved by a stray dog named boy
who follows joel on his journey warning
him against poisonous berries and other
dangers
joel falls into a nest of worm monsters
called sand gobblers
when two survivors clyde dutton and
minnow rescue him
they are heading north to the mountains
where the colder weather and higher
elevation means fewer monsters
they teach joel some basic survival
skills and how not all monsters are
hostile
demonstrating how you can always tell in
their eyes
they invite joel to stay with them but
joel insists that he must find amy
as they part ways clyde gifts joel with
a grenade
as joel continues west boy becomes
trapped by a giant centipede monster
joel freezes but eventually shoots and
kills the monster with his crossbow
saving boy sheltering in an abandoned
motel
they meet a robot named mav1s before her
battery dies
mav1s powers his radio long enough to
briefly contact amy
where he learns that new survivors have
reached her colony
promising to lead them away to safety
the next day
joel and boy are attacked by a queen
sand gobbler
they hide but boy barks giving away
their position
joel kills the queen with the grenade
but yells at boy for putting them in
danger
causing boy to run away
[Music]
after swimming across a river joel is
covered in poisonous leeches and
hallucinates
but is rescued before he collapses joel
wakes to finally see amy
she leads a beach colony of elderly
survivors who depend on her
joel is introduced to the new survivors
cap and his crew
as everyone celebrates their imminent
departure amy confesses she is glad to
see joel
but has become a different person and is
still mourning someone she had become
close to
joel decides to return to his colony and
contacts them on the radio
learning that it has become unsafe and
that they too must leave soon
cap sends joel some berries which he
recognizes as poisonous
realizing cap is not to be trusted he
rushes to warn amy but is knocked
unconscious
joel amy and the rest of her colony
awake and tied up on the beach
cap reveals that his group is there to
steal supplies and that their yacht is
towed by a crab monster that cap
controls with an electrified chain
cap sets the crab to feed on the
colonists but joel
and amy escape and are able to fight for
their lives and boy returns to help
joel has the opportunity to kill the
crab but he determines that the crab is
not hostile by looking into its eyes
and shoots the electrified chain freeing
it
the crab leaves joel unharmed and
instead kills cap and his crew
sinking the yacht in the process joel
recommends amy and her colony
head north they share a romantic goodbye
kiss
and amy promises she will find him joel
tracks all the way back to his colony
and they too decide to head to the
mountains
on the radio joel inspires other
colonies to take to the surface
as everyone heads north clyde and minnow
already in the mountains
wonder if joel will survive the next
journey